Our disciple-making work is a weighty assignment from Jehovah.
But he does not expect us to accomplish it on our own.
Are you making full use of the help Jehovah provides?
We know that you will be encouraged by the following three-part symposium.
Each speaker will introduce the one to follow.
But the Robert Serenco, a helper to the writing committee,
will deliver the first talk entitled,
Experience the Joy of Disciple-Making.
Accept Jehovah's help.
Research tools.
But Serenco, you have our full attention.
What would you say?
How important is the disciple-making work?
Well, it is so important that Jehovah God is directly involved in it.
How do we know?
Turn in your Bibles, please, to 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 9.
1 Corinthians 3, 9.
It says, for we are God's fellow workers.
You are God's field under cultivation, God's building.
Just think what a privilege we have to share with the Almighty Creator of the Universe
and work that he considers so important here on Earth.
He allows us to experience the joy of helping to build people into disciples of Jesus Christ.
We know from the verses that come just before verse 9 that,
While we plant and water seeds of kingdom truth in the hearts of interested ones,
Jehovah is the one who makes those seeds grow.
However, knowing this should not minimize in our minds the importance of our part
in the disciple-making work.
What we do and how we do it has an impact on how those seeds of truth will grow.
And Jehovah knows that the more skilled we become at making disciples,
the more effective we will be as his fellow workers and the more enjoyable the work will be for us.
To that end, Jehovah equips us to teach as effectively as possible.
All we have to do is accept his help, and that is what this symposium is all about.
Learning to benefit from the research tools Jehovah has given us,
the help that is available from our brothers and the power of prayer.
Each talk in the symposium will consider two questions.
First, what help has Jehovah given us?
And second, how can we use that help to increase our joy in the ministry?
Let's start by talking about research tools.
What help is Jehovah given us?
He has given us the right tools, the best tools for our work.
For most of all, he has dignified us by allowing us to use his written word the Bible,
and that is our most important tool for the ministry.
Turn to 2 Timothy 3, verses 16 and 17.
2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17.
It says, all scripture is inspired of God and beneficial for teaching,
for reproving, for setting things straight, for disciplining and righteousness,
so that the man of God or woman of God may be fully competent,
completely equipped for every good work.
We should want to do all we can to keep honing our skills in using the Bible to teach the truth about God, Christ, and the Kingdom.
And the beauty of using the Bible is that the message contained in it can literally change people.
Religious falsehoods and erroneous ideas have become strongly entrenched in the minds of sincere people,
but the Bible, when used effectively, can overturn those wrong beliefs.
Why the Bible can even help a person understand his own deepest thoughts and feelings?
One Bible translation renders that 16th verse by saying the Bible is useful for resetting the direction of a man's life.
Through our own study of the Bible, we can become skilled at using the scriptures in the ministry.
And to help us succeed in this, Jehovah has given us a variety of research tools to use in personal study and family worship.
These include the Watchtower Library, the JW Library App, the Watchtower Online Library, and the Research Guide.
Jehovah wants us to be skillful in using the tools he has provided so that the proverb will come true for us that says,
have you seen a man skillful at his work? He will stand before kings.
As you watch the following dramatization, notice what comes up on Nita's Bible study that challenges her as a teacher,
how she realizes she needs help to teach effectively, and what research tool she uses to prepare for her study with Jade.
I'm making a friend with God. Yeah, I don't know how to do that.
I can make a friend, but you've done fine with me. But I can see you. But God, a friend? Seriously?
How about what you can see? What does creation teach us about him? Not much. Maybe evolve or your species dies? It doesn't really help.
Well, I'm not talking about evolution. I'm talking about the things that God created.
You know, it's probably just got a little workshop up there building things one at a time, do you?
In the real world, things evolve. It's all random. I don't know what that tells me about him.
I wasn't ready for this. Evolution isn't my strong suit. I need help. This could be good.
Many who believe evolution, ancient tidal pool chemicals spontaneously assembled too deep.
Wait, maybe what does the evidence reveal? For a cell to survive DNA, RNA, inanimate chemicals, probability,
I'm not sure this is what she needs. Her real issue was getting to know someone she can't see. Maybe that's the best place to begin.
One widespread false teaching rubs people of hope, implies that human life has no purpose.
This could be it. Establish the positive. What creation really says about Jehovah versus whatever evolution obscures.
Okay, so you got me thinking and I did some research.
And I think you'll really like what I found. Come on, comes it down.
Did you see where need a turn for help? The research guide.
With a little bit of searching and persistence, she found what she needed. She got excited about the information and passed that excitement on to her student.
How can you use our research tools effectively? You can use them to help you explain and teach the scriptures.
For example, as with Jade, your students may be struggling to understand a scriptural teaching. Or you may have a student who is trying to overcome a personal problem.
Use the tools Jehovah has given us to search for an explanation or an illustration that will help the person.
And you may not even have to do all the work yourself. Perhaps you can show your students how to use our tools in order to find the Bible's answers to their questions.
Do your best, though, to learn how to use our research tools.
Likely, you already use JW Library for personal study and family worship and to prepare for congregation meetings.
But if you keep up to date with new features in the JW Library app, you can also use it to good advantage in your ministry.
There are even features built into the app that make it possible for you to save the research that you have done so you can use it again in the future.
What are those features? Notes and tags. Notes and tags. If you learn how to use them, well, now you can.
If you have JW Library with you on a device, open the Bible to 1 Timothy chapter 2, 1 Timothy chapter 2, and follow along with this tutorial video.
Are you making full use of JW Library? Let's learn how some are using it and then practice together.
I create notes in my Bible for many different reasons. It could be a good point from a talk.
An illustration to help me explain something to a Bible student or something from my own meditation.
I highlight the key phrase and create a note.
Let's practice together. If you have JW Library, find 1 Timothy 2 verse 6 in the Bible.
Now highlight the word ransom and tap the add a note button. Then type your comment.
Tapping the note marker in the margin brings your comment into view.
I've created a lot of notes. I use tags to help me find them again. For example, whenever I hear a point that I want to use in the ministry,
I create a note and add a tag like prayer, ransom, or last days. Then when I'm in the ministry, I can quickly find my note.
Let's practice together. On the note you just created, tap the three dots and then edit.
Now tap the button, add a tag, and enter a tag name. In this case, type ransom. You can add as many tags as you like.
To find your notes again, go to the personal study tab. You can type in the search box or you can just tap the tag.
As I read the Bible chapters for the midweek meeting, I often come across verses that I want to understand better, so I check the research guide.
Sometimes I use the points I find in a comment at the meeting.
Let's practice together. Are you still at first Timothy chapter 2?
Tap on the number for verse 6. Then tap the research guide button on the menu. Now you can read information that explains this verse.
You can even copy a portion of the research and paste it into your note.
If you were like me, you will probably have to watch that video a few more times.
If you find it challenging to learn how to use some of the features of our tools, here are two things you can do.
First, ask someone in your congregation to assist you, and often the young people can help the most.
Second, go to JW.org, scroll to the bottom of any page, click on JW Library, and there you will find more tutorial videos that you can watch.
As announced at the 2018 annual meeting, our research tools are being redesigned to be unified and more user friendly.
Be sure to learn the new features as they are released.
And may you joyfully work with Jehovah by using the research tools he has provided for making disciples.
Brother Joel Dalinger, a helper to the service committee will now present the next talk of the symposium.
Experience the joy of disciples making, accept Jehovah's help, our brothers.
The Bible identifies a second source of help that Jehovah has given us so that we can experience the joy of making disciples.
That gift is described at 1 Peter, chapter 5, and verse 9.
Please read that with me.
1 Peter, chapter 5, and verse 9.
But take your stand against him, firm in the faith, knowing that the same kind of sufferings are being experienced by the entire association of your brothers in the world.
What hope has Jehovah given us? It's our worldwide association of brothers and sisters.
Just as their example can help us to endure, our brothers can also help us meet the challenges in the ministry.
Yes, Jehovah has given us a large spiritual family, and that shows that he wants us to experience the joy of working together.
Now, we might be thinking, that's encouraging, but is it realistic to think that I can experience the joy of making a disciple?
Perhaps you've had Bible studies, but none of them have yet progressed to the point of dedication and baptism.
So you might wonder, am I really up to that challenge?
Or maybe you're a parent who's newer in the truth, and you're thinking to yourself, how can I reach my child's heart and help him or her learn to love Jehovah as I do?
Or maybe you're dealing with poor health, or the effects of old age, and you wonder, can I have an effective ministry?
Brothers and sisters, we want you to take heart. Jehovah has provided help, and help may be near than you think.
To highlight the help that Jehovah gives to all of us for a few moments, let's consider the Apostle Paul's experience.
When we think of the Apostle Paul, what comes to mind?
Perhaps a very hard-working, energetic brother who traveled extensively as a missionary.
And can there be any doubt that Paul's ministry was a complete success?
But was Paul's success the result of his efforts alone?
No. Paul needed and humbly accepted help from others.
For example, you may recall reading in Acts 16 and 17, how the man Silas traveled with Paul.
On that trip in the city of Philippi, Paul and Silas shared the joy of helping an entire family become baptized disciples.
Now there's something very interesting in the Bible's record of that account.
Every time Paul is mentioned, Silas is mentioned as well.
In fact, the expression Paul and Silas occurs six times in quick succession.
Well, what do we learn from that? Clearly, Paul had help in his ministry. He did not go it alone.
Now, young ones, a question for you.
Can you think of another close friend of Paul who often traveled with him?
You got it right. Timothy. For about 14 years, the two of them worked together in Jehovah's service.
Now, did Paul, the more experienced man, really view Timothy as a helper as someone who could assist him?
Yes, he did. As Paul neared the end of his life, for example, he wrote to Timothy, his younger friend, and said,
Do your utmost to come to me shortly.
Paul was not too proud to ask for help.
In Acts chapter 18, the Bible tells us about a married couple, Aquila and his wife Priscilla, or Priska, who supported Paul.
In the city of Corinth, they welcomed Paul not only into their home, but also into the business of making tents.
Now, can you imagine how much joy these three must have had as they worked together?
Not only in the secular trade of making tents, but also in advancing the kingdom good news?
Now, when Paul left Corinth, do you know what happened with Aquila and Priscilla?
They followed him to Ephesus. Their Aquila and Priscilla used their home as a meeting place for the local congregation.
Their helpful services continued. In Acts chapter 18, at verse 24, we learned that this couple became acquainted with Apollas.
A Christian from Egypt, who, according to the scriptural account, was an eloquent man and well versed in the scriptures.
Even so, Apollas needed some help because he had some gaps in his understanding.
So what did helpful Priscilla and Aquila do?
Acts chapter 18 verse 26 tells us they took Apollas into their company and explained the way of God more accurately to him.
Now, think of that for a moment. This humble couple, tent makers, were not intimidated by Apollas.
To them, he was a brother, a part of the family, and out of brotherly love, they took the initiative to give him the help that he needed.
Well, in thinking about Paul and how he viewed those that assisted him, how do you think he felt about this beautiful couple?
Please open your Bible with me to Paul's own words that Jehovah preserved in Romans chapter 16 verses 3 and 4.
Let's Romans chapter 16 verses 3 and 4. Let's read it together.
Give my greetings to Priska or Priscilla and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus, who have risked their own next for me, and to whom not only I, but also all the congregations of the nations, give thanks.
Deep appreciation is what Paul felt for this loyal couple. He viewed them as his fellow workers.
Now, what does all of that we've discussed? Tell us about the Apostle Paul. Clearly, the success he enjoyed in his ministry was not the result of his efforts alone.
Jehovah gave Paul the help he needed to have an effective ministry, and that help came in the form of many brothers and sisters.
Dear brothers and sisters, Jehovah has given you and given me the same help, our brothers.
In the following dramatization, please notice how Anita benefits from the help of another sister.
I've tried everything to get day two in meeting.
It's every Saturday and Sunday, and I think you drew the intro here.
I can't promise anything.
It would be nice if you could come.
Absolutely. Have you tried bringing other people on the study?
Well, maybe not everything. What are you doing tomorrow after me?
I'm since I hear them.
You know that band?
Know them. I used to see them all the time before I'm a witness.
No way. You like that kind of music.
You don't believe me? Anything.
Happy gay?
I was young.
You were in a band. We have that vinyl.
So, I'll be gone next week, but I'll have someone else take care of the study.
Did you notice how Anita responded to the suggestion that was given her?
Applying that council brought good results.
Like Anita, we may need specific help to accomplish our ministry fully.
For example, when it comes to making return visits and conducting Bible studies,
could some brothers and sisters in your congregation help you to improve your skills?
Like all of us would benefit by reaching out to such publishers who have gained experience
and skill in those aspects of the ministry.
What if you're a parent who wants to instill love for Jehovah in the heart of your child?
How about asking some other parents or grandparents for advice?
If they've had success raising their children to love Jehovah and become baptized disciples,
they will certainly be happy to share their experience with you.
And what if we have age, limitations, or health concerns?
We may need practical assistance that accommodates our needs.
For example, at many Bethel homes, elderly and infirm brothers and sisters are still having a regular
and productive share in the ministry. Do you know how?
Elders at Bethel arranged for younger publishers to join the elderly ones in letter writing and phone witnessing.
One sister by the name of Nancy, who was nearly 90 years old at the time, said this.
I don't view letter writing as just stuffing envelopes. This is field service. People need to know the truth.
How encouraging. And did you know that in less than a year,
one group of precious older ones devoted over 1,000 hours to the ministry,
wrote over 6,000 letters, made over 2,000 phone calls and placed over 6,000 pieces of literature?
What good was accomplished by working together and what joy they experienced?
Of course, we have to admit that it takes humility to acknowledge that we need help.
But in this we can learn from Apollos.
Though eloquent, though well versed in the Scriptures, he accepted the help that he needed.
As a result, he benefited and all those that he would teach thereafter benefited.
So here's the point.
Can you think of someone, like Priscilla or Aquila, who could give you the help you need?
If so, why not explain your needs and ask that person to join you in the ministry or on Bible studies?
Now, if you've been serving Jehovah for a time, are you in a position to help others?
If so, we encourage you to be observant. Take the initiative to offer assistance.
If you see that a brother or sister would benefit from a kind suggestion, don't hold back.
At an appropriate time, you might begin the conversation in a friendly way by saying,
may I offer you a suggestion? Or, here's what I try to do.
Remember, if we're kind and thoughtful, like Aquila and Priscilla, likely our words and example
will prove to be a blessing to help our brothers find joy in making disciples too.
Well, in the second part of this symposium, what have we learned?
First, our brothers are a gift from Jehovah to help us make disciples.
And second, when we work together and support one another, all of us can find great joy in our precious ministry.
Now, Brother Garrett Loesch, a member of the governing body will consider the third and final talk of this symposium,
experience the joy of disciples making, except Jehovah's help prayer.
Help! No doubt you have sometimes in your life heard somebody call out, help!
Perhaps you yourself have called out, help to Jehovah.
In Psalm 30 verse 10, David once sang,
old Jehovah, become my helper.
Jehovah becomes our helper not only when we are in danger.
He provides help in many positive ways in everyday life.
What helped us Jehovah provide for us?
First, find with me a revelation chapter 14 verse 6.
For one thing, Jehovah provides his holy angels to support the worldwide preaching work.
In Revelation 146, John recorded.
And I saw another angel flying in mid-Heaven and he had ever lasting good news to declare to those who dwell on the earth to every nation and tribe and tongue and people.
It is not just one angel that is active in support of the preaching work, many angels are involved in it.
If it were not for the help and direction of the angels, we would sometimes overlook somebody with a good heart when we go out and preach.
Secondly, Jehovah has also given us his holy spirit, the fruitage of which makes us more effective teachers and helps us to draw sheep like ones to the truth.
Thirdly, Jehovah has given us as help the privilege of prayer.
He gets personally involved in our activities.
Bible teachers and students alike need Jehovah's help.
Psalm 127 verse 1 says, unless Jehovah builds the house, it is in vain that its builders work hard on it.
Fourth, Jehovah gives us also the needed wisdom.
It is wisdom to pray for the wisdom from above mentioned at James 3 verse 17.
Lastly, Jehovah also gives us the needed strength which helps us a lot when we are tired or discouraged or have a lot of work.
First, Peter 4.11 refers to the strength that God supplies.
Yes, we can pray for Jehovah's help for wisdom and for the necessary strength.
In the following dramatization, notice the power of praying in behalf of a Bible student.
So, how do we know that Jesus did not become king when he was on earth or immediately after he was resurrected?
Oh, because he didn't.
Well, what did Jesus teach his disciples to pray?
Oh, well, I know the obvious, let your kingdom come, implied future tense.
But how come you know for sure what's going on in heaven?
Maybe it would help if we reviewed the cited scriptures here.
Before you leave a suggestion, maybe you were to study ahead of time.
How about no? I'm really swamped.
I know you're busy.
We all are.
You have no clue, do you?
I gotta go.
I didn't know what to do next.
I thought she was making our study a priority, but maybe she wasn't.
It do all die time.
Then, I remembered 1 Corinthians 3 verse 6 that God keeps making a grow.
So I asked him to help Jade, then left it with him.
Look, I need to apologize.
Forget it. You were stressed.
Yeah, but there's more.
Inside, I knew you were right.
It's just the last thing I wanted to stop.
Really?
How about I show you how I prepare?
Okay.
How can prayer help us in making disciples?
Please locate with me Philippians 1 verses 9 and 10.
And this is what I continue praying that your love may abound still more and more
with accurate knowledge and full discernment.
That you may make sure of the more important things so that you may be flawless
and not stumbling others up to the day of Christ.
Just as Paul prayed that the love of the Philippians may abound
with accurate knowledge and full discernment, we can pray for the same
in behalf of our Bible students.
Pray also for the Holy Spirit to guide your thoughts and actions
and the ones of your students.
Pray from the heart, confident that Jehovah will hear you.
Psalm 65 verse 2 says,
Oh, hear of prayer to you people of all sorts will come.
Teach your Bible students how to pray, not only encourage them to do so,
urge them to do so.
Learning to pray will help your students to form a close friendship with Jehovah.
Pray with your Bible students and for them, using or spelling out their name.
Be confident that Jehovah will answer your prayers and theirs.
Please turn to Acts 10 verse 9.
Peter was a fine example of one who prayed.
Acts 10 verse 9 says,
The next day as they were continuing on their journey and were approaching the city,
Peter went up to the house top about the sixth hour to pray.
In the same chapter Cornelius was also a fine example.
In Acts chapter 10, 30 and 31, he reported to Peter.
Four days ago, counting from this hour I was praying in my house at the ninth hour,
just then a man in bright clothing stood in front of me and said,
Cornelius, your prayer has been favorably heard and your gifts of mercy have been remembered before God.
Jehovah answered Peter's prayer and Cornelius prayer.
Jehovah has given us what we need to increase our joy in making disciples.
When a report came to John that Jesus was making many disciples,
John did not become jealous.
At John chapter 3 he replied,
This joy of mine has been made full.
That one must go on increasing but I must go on decreasing.
When we do not make disciples personally, we can still rejoice with those who do make them.
The angels rejoice although they do not personally make disciples.
At Luke 157, Jesus said,
There will be more joy in heaven or the one sinner who repents than over 99 righteous ones who have no need of repentance.
We also rejoice because we have the Bible and powerful research tools in print and electronically as well as in audio format.
We rejoice because we have our brotherhood to support and assist us.
We can ask them for suggestions and we can invite them to accompany us in the ministry,
even if it is only by computer, tie-in or telephone witnessing.
If we cannot meet together physically for a congregation meeting,
we can arrange for tie-ins with others and here and see them.
It warms our heart.
Don't forget the provisions from Jehovah which we mentioned at the beginning of this talk.
First, we have the privilege of prayer.
Second, the help of God's angels.
Third, the support of the Holy Spirit.
Fourth, the wisdom from above.
And fifth, the spiritual and emotional strength that God supplies.
Jehovah has given us all of this because He cares about us and about those we teach.
We will have great joy in the ministry if we take full advantage of Jehovah's help.
Lastly, we want to mention something very precious that brings us deep inner joy, some 25-14.
Close friendship with Jehovah belongs to those who fear Him and pray to Him.
May your joyous friendship with Jehovah and the joyous friendship with disciples of Jehovah last for an eternity.
Thank you, brothers, for drawing our attention to the help Jehovah provides.
The time has now arrived for the baptism discourse.
We invite all baptism candidates to pay particular attention.
The day of one's baptism is an especially joyful one.
But it is also just a beginning.
How can you candidates for baptism gain even greater joy in the days ahead?
Listen closely to the answer presented in this discourse entitled,
How Your Baptism Leads To More Happiness.
The talk will be given by a help or to the teaching committee, Brother William Malenfont.
Among the many things that Jesus Christ revealed to His disciples
was this very old and fundamental truth.
There is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.
Jesus learned this truth from His Father, Jehovah God, who is the greatest example of a happy giver.
At Genesis 127, we see clear evidence of Jehovah's generosity.
Genesis 127 says, and God went on to create the man in His image.
In God's image He created Him, male and female He created them.
This verse describes humans as a unique creation, different in many ways from all other forms of life on earth.
We are made in Jehovah's image.
Jehovah God designed us to reflect His personality.
We have within us the capability of cultivating the divine quality of generosity
and to experience the happiness that comes from giving.
We really do get pleasure out of giving to family, friends, even to people we don't know.
It makes us feel good to give to others.
However, the most important giving that we can do and the key to happiness in life
is to give our Creator what He deserves.
Revelation 4, verse 11, sets forth clearly the things that Jehovah God deserves
and it shows the reason why we should give such things to God.
Read with me. Revelation 4, verse 11, it says,
You are worthy, Jehovah, our God, to receive the glory and the honor and the power
because you created all things and because of your will they came into existence
and were created.
We exist because Jehovah created us.
That fact makes Him worthy to receive from us, glory, honor and power.
That's what you candidates for baptism have made the decision to do, to give Jehovah God,
glory and honor and power.
You do this by praising His name, by obeying Him and by using your life,
your power, energy and your whole strength to do His will.
By getting baptized in symbol of your dedication to God,
you are declaring publicly that you have given yourself to Jehovah.
You have made a gift to God of your heart, mind and strength, your very being.
And you have made this decision because you have come to know Jehovah and you love Him.
We are happy to acknowledge your decision to give yourselves to God
and we wholeheartedly welcome you baptism candidates.
Giving of yourself in baptism will lead to great happiness
because it opens up opportunities to give of yourself in ways that truly count.
Your baptism brings you into a special relationship with Jehovah.
It allows you to participate in doing His will with His approval because you are obeying Him.
You become one of Jehovah's witnesses, qualified to present the evidence
that Jehovah is the only living and true God.
Your dedication in baptism opens the door for you to become part of the worldwide brotherhood,
a true modern-day miracle.
There is nothing anywhere on this planet that can compare to the visible part of Jehovah's organization
made up of people from all nations, tribes, languages and backgrounds.
People who really do love God and love one another.
You have more opportunities now than ever before to give and receive encouragement.
For example, think of the encouragement you get from the brotherhood
in fulfillment of Jesus' promise at Mark 1029 and 30.
In those two verses, Jesus assured His disciples that they would get a hundred times more
of what they left behind in this old world and in the coming system of things.
He said that they would have everlasting life.
It must have given Jesus pleasure to share that wonderful and encouraging promise with His disciples
and it most certainly made the disciples happy.
That's how it is, isn't it?
Giving and making other people happy makes us happy.
The happiness you can experience by helping others is unlimited
because Jehovah focuses on your motive for giving, why you give.
Jehovah never takes for granted what you do and He will always reward you for it.
Read with me, Hebrews chapter 6 verse 10,
and take note of the fact that Jehovah God remembers why you give
and what you do to advance kingdom interest.
Hebrews chapter 6 and verse 10, it reads,
For God is not unrighteous so as to forget your work and the love you showed for His name
by ministering and continuing to minister to the holy ones.
As the Scripture shows, Jehovah won't forget what you do
because you are motivated by love for His name.
Let's now consider more closely two areas in which baptism broadens your opportunities to give.
First, making disciples, and second, helping your brothers and sisters in the faith.
The foremost way for you and for me to give is by sharing the good news of the kingdom and making disciples.
Jesus' exhortation to make disciples is found at Matthew 28, 19, and 20.
The commission to make disciples was given not only to the first century Christians,
but to all of Jesus' disciples right down to the time of the end in which we are living.
Think for a moment about what is involved in disciple making.
It's the result of preaching and teaching.
And you know that it takes time to prepare for and take part in the ministry.
The sample presentations we see in the midweek meetings are not complicated,
and it's good that they don't change too often.
But to have a presentation well in mind and be prepared for the field service,
you may need to give up some time you formerly spent on yourself.
It takes time to learn a presentation and to become familiar with it.
But taking the time is worth it.
It's a good feeling to be prepared and ready to preach, to have something to say,
and a video to show whenever you have the opportunity.
There are sheep out there, but we don't know where they are,
and so we try to call on everyone.
People need to hear about the kingdom, whether they accept the message or not.
So don't become discouraged if you don't have the kind of result you anticipated.
Just keep on preaching, and you will be blessed.
When you preach, you are engaging in the most important work being done today,
announcing God's kingdom, the fulfillment of Matthew 24-14.
And this good news of the kingdom will be preached in all the inhabited earth
for a witness to all the nations, and then the end will come.
You are successful in obeying Jesus' words to preach the kingdom message,
even when people reject the good news.
You can't control how people respond,
but you do not let up in preaching the life-saving message of truth.
Honest hearts respond to the kingdom message.
Be courageous and trust in Jehovah and his powerful spirit to help you.
Your work will have everlasting results for you personally,
and for those who listen to you and embrace the truth.
The Apostle Paul tells us at 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 9,
that by sharing in the ministry, you become Jehovah's Fellow Worker.
Can you imagine?
Jehovah invites imperfect humans to cooperate with him,
the Almighty Creator, in a special work that he considers highly important.
Your faith and hope become stronger as you give
by sharing with others what you know about Jehovah and the kingdom.
Keep in mind the simple and enriching truth stated at Proverbs chapter 11, verse 24.
It applies both materially and spiritually.
That's Proverbs chapter 11, verse 24, and it reads,
one gives generously and ends up with more.
Another withholds what should be given, but he comes to poverty.
No matter how much you give to Jehovah,
you will always get back more than you give.
You can't outgive Jehovah.
Isn't that wonderful?
Seize every opportunity to give of yourself in the ministry,
and your giving will continue to bring you happiness.
The more involved you are, the happier you will be.
Engage in the ministry every week if at all possible.
Also, think seriously about reaching out to serve as an auxiliary pioneer or a regular pioneer.
Talk to pioneers about the joy they get from the ministry.
It's contagious.
Many doors to wonderful experiences and blessings open to those who reach out to expand their ministry.
Your regular participation in the preaching work allows you the opportunity to develop skill in using the Bible,
starting conversations, and in using the teaching toolbox.
All of us enjoy doing the things that we do well.
When you're good at something, usually you like doing it.
Work at improving the quality of your ministry.
As you do, your joy will increase.
One way joy increases is by participating in various forms of the ministry,
public witnessing, house to house, informal telephone witnessing, and letter writing.
Also, you can develop your skills in using the Bible, your tablet or cell phone to bring up scriptures or videos.
Take the time to practice starting conversations and in using the teaching toolbox.
It does take practice to find exactly what you're looking for and then using it to give a witness.
Approaching strangers and engaging them in conversation about the Bible can be a challenge.
Why?
One reason is because some of us are more reserved than others.
We are pleased to introduce Sister Lorraine E. Jackson.
Sister Jackson has been serving for many years in special full-time service and visiting a variety of lands with her husband Jeffrey.
Sister Jackson.
At first, when you learned the truth in Fiji as a young person, how did you feel about sharing in the ministry?
Brother Malenfond, I am shy and reserved by nature.
And I remember that when I first learned that Jehovah wants us to preach his good news, I was excited.
But even more so, I was terrified.
I understood that preaching would mean approaching strangers and trying to have conversations with them often when they least expected it.
And really all I wanted to do was just be quiet and be on my own.
I think there are many brothers and sisters who feel the same way.
What helped you to share in the ministry more fully?
I think the main thing that has helped me is relying on Jehovah's help through prayer.
Like many others, I talked to Jehovah constantly about my struggles.
The struggle to say the right thing.
The struggle to not show fear in my manner or my voice.
The struggle to remember the right scriptures to use and to use them well.
And of course, if someone is rude to try and remain calm and kind.
Your words are appreciated.
Tell us, what are some of the things that bring you joy in the ministry?
The things that bring you joy are the very things I could not have done without Jehovah's help.
Things like conversing freely with people, strangers, about Jehovah and the Bible.
And then having the opportunity to see people's eyes light up,
when they read or understand the Bible verse for the first time,
I think those are really precious.
And of course, helping a Bible student work through a problem
and then also trying to become their friend.
I think things like these really show Jehovah's power and support
and all I can do is thank him for them.
That's very encouraging for all of us, Mr. Jackson.
My final question is, how do you feel about participating in various aspects of the ministry?
I know I still lack so much, but I'm so grateful for the opportunity I've been given
to participate in various aspects of the ministry,
because they've allowed me to help others start their own journeys
coming to Jehovah's friend, and also giving me an opportunity to work with Jehovah
and really rely on him.
I feel the ministry helps one, especially if one is shy,
to focus on others, on Jehovah, on Jesus, on people and their needs,
and not so much on one's own limitations.
It's true, I'm still very reserved and shy,
and as those close to me know, some days are good,
and other days I feel like hiding somewhere and not saying much.
However, the ministry has helped me manage my shyness
and has helped train me to accept other assignments of service.
I am convinced that anyone, whether a timid or otherwise,
can rejoice in the ministry, provided they rely constantly on Jehovah and focus on him.
Thank you very much, Sister Jackson, for such encouraging expressions of faith.
Jehovah is there to help us.
If we trust in him and put forth a sincere effort to give of ourselves in the preaching activity,
the second way to give is by helping those related to us in the faith.
Paul wrote about this at Galatians 6-10.
It reads,
So then, as long as we have the opportunity,
let us work what is good toward all, but especially toward those related to us in the faith.
Yes, you are part of a beautiful family,
willingly use your time, energy, and resources to assist your fellow believers,
and work what is good toward them.
Think about your brothers in the congregation,
and identify those whom you can assist in practical ways.
Ask yourself,
is there someone in the congregation I could help by giving that person a ride to a meeting,
or perhaps run an errand for him or for her?
Perhaps visit the elderly and offer to assist them in practical ways.
We all want to show personal interest in our brothers and sisters,
and be a source of encouragement to them.
Also, we want to support relief efforts for needy Christians.
Natural disasters occur,
and there is sickness as well as poverty among many other things.
Doesn't it thrill you when you read how the brothers respond generously to assist fellow believers who are in need?
At 2 Corinthians 8, 1 through 4,
Paul expresses deep appreciation for the brothers in Macedonia,
and notice why Paul felt that way.
2 Corinthians 8 verses 1 through 4.
Now we want you to know, brothers,
about the undeserved kindness of God
that has been granted to the congregations of Macedonia.
During a great test under affliction,
their abundance of joy and their deep poverty made the riches of their generosity abound.
For it was according to their means,
yes, I testify,
it was even beyond their means,
while they, on their own initiative,
kept earnestly begging us for the privilege of kindly giving
to have a share in the relief ministry for the holy ones.
The brothers in Macedonia took the initiative to provide loving help to their spiritual family
in spite of their own poverty.
What a fine example for us to be generous and ready to assist our spiritual brothers and sisters
whatever way we can.
Giving to others can be done in different ways.
With that thought in mind,
we are happy to interview Sister Penny Pierce.
Sister Pierce,
you have raised a family,
you've spent decades in special full-time service,
and traveled to a variety of lands with your husband Guy
who was a member of the governing body.
And like Dorcas,
you have a reputation for abounding
in good deeds and gifts of mercy.
Tell us Sister Pierce,
what motivates you to assist others?
With the answer is found in 1 Corinthians 29, 14,
where it says,
for everything is from you,
and we have given to you
what comes from your own hand.
So anything that I may give
actually comes from Jehovah.
Recently, with the coronavirus,
we've seen an outpouring of Jehovah's people giving.
We all have given time and energy,
emotions, a listening ear,
and video chatting.
Everyone, young and old,
gave love, faith, and trust,
and it didn't cost anything.
I felt Jehovah is doing wonderful things
in the middle of a tragic pandemic.
What you said is truly practical and very helpful.
Sister Pierce, please tell us the experience you had
when you hosted brothers and sisters
during a special preaching campaign.
What times we have the opportunity to help materially too.
Some years ago when the family was home,
we had 30 people coming to stay at our home.
They were going to preach to refugees.
I had one bathroom,
and I had $25,
which I spent completely on food.
Now I had zero.
We never told anyone we didn't have money.
I knew they didn't have money too.
We had a wonderful time.
When the friends left Sunday night,
I had more food than when they came.
That food lasted us for 10 days to the end of the month.
But I worried about the effect on my teenage sons.
So I asked one how he felt.
He said,
I know you have a jar of flour and oil.
I didn't worry anymore.
Jehovah certainly blessed you.
Tell us how you view what you did
to host the friends that came to preach in your area.
Many of these acts of kindness I did were very small to me,
but often I didn't know the big impact it would have in their lives.
That's when you realize you've had the privilege of working with Holy Spirit.
It's nothing I did. It's what Jehovah did.
That's beautiful, Sister Pierce.
Now we would like to hear a final expression from you
of the joy that you receive personally in giving.
When never gives to Jehovah and not received back a hundredfold,
it may not come from the same source, but it will come.
Jehovah promises in Acts 2035,
there is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.
I have to admit, Jehovah spoils me with blessings.
Thank you very much, Sister Pierce.
Jehovah has certainly blessed you for your generosity
and your warm Christian hospitality.
Helping one another strengthens the bonds of the Brotherhood.
And there is nothing like knowing that your brothers really do love you.
That's how the brothers in Jerusalem felt when they were in need
and received loving assistance from the brothers in Corinth.
Please turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 9 verses 11 through 14.
This is where the Apostle Paul describes the reaction
of the needy brothers in Jerusalem to the generosity of the brothers in Corinth,
that 2 Corinthians chapter 9 verses 11 through 14.
And this is what Paul wrote.
In everything, you are being enriched for every sort of generosity
which produces through us an expression of thanks to God.
Because the ministry of this public service is not only to provide well
for the needs of the Holy Ones, but also to be rich
in many expressions of thanks to God.
Through the proof that this relief ministry gives,
they, that is the holy ones in Jerusalem, glorify God
because you are submissive to the good news about the Christ
as you publicly declared and because you are generous
in your contribution to them and to all.
And with supplication for you, they express affection for you
because of the surpassing undeserved kindness of God upon you.
The brothers in Jerusalem glorified Jehovah,
not just because they received some material provisions,
but rather it was because the brothers in Corinth,
who for the most part were new in the Christian faith,
were motivated by love to send material help.
Yes, the truth was in their hearts and made them cheerful
givers to the brothers in Jerusalem.
So they all were happy and felt Jehovah's love and approval.
Eubaptism candidates will rejoice as you sense and are convinced
that Jehovah is pleased with what you do.
Proverbs 1917 tells us how Jehovah views unselfish giving
to those in need.
It says,
the one showing favor to the lowly is lending to Jehovah
and he will repay him for what he does.
Can you imagine lending to Jehovah?
When we give spiritual or material help to our brothers in need,
Jehovah sees and views it as a loan to him.
Remember, you can't outgive Jehovah by giving to others
and refreshing them.
The giver in turn will benefit himself as Proverbs 11.25 says,
the generous person will prosper and whoever refreshes others
will himself be refreshed.
Today you feel happy because you are giving of yourself to Jehovah,
to serve him forever.
You make us happy by taking that decision.
We exhort you to maintain your happiness
by doing what you can reasonably do to help others
by giving both in the ministry and in the congregation.
Jehovah will give back to you in more ways than you can imagine.
May the way in which you live as dedicated servants of Jehovah
reflect, forever, the fundamental truth revealed by Jesus.
There is more happiness in giving than there is in receiving.
Thank you, Brother Melanfant.
This year, the circumstances for baptism will vary in each location.
Many of you are watching this broadcast from a private home.
Possibly, others of you are able to gather at a kingdom hall.
In any event, your elders have made suitable provisions
in a court with local circumstances for candidates to be baptized
after the conclusion of this session.
As soon as we finish singing song number 79 together,
baptism candidates in your congregations will have an opportunity
to make a public declaration of their faith.
By answering the two questions posed by a local elder,
after which he will offer the prayer.
Please be assured that the brothers at the branch office
look forward to receiving your reports about these baptisms
from the circuit overseers.
And now, let us all stand and sing together song number 79,
teach them to stand firm.